---
layout: default
---

<a class="btn" href="{{site.baseurl}}/biweekly.html">&lt; Bi-Weekly Reports</a>

# Bi-Weekly Report 9

## March 11, 2016

### Summary

During  the  last  two  weeks,  we  followed  through  with  our  plan  of  completing  all  of the  Should  Have  functional  requirements  after  our  stagnated  progress  during  the Reading week and Scenario week. We made major headway with development and are now in a position to begin testing and potentially making further refinements to the feature set. We also met up with the client after not being able to meet with them for several  weeks  and  we  received  very  positive  feedback  on  the  current  state  of  our application.  

### Meetings

Tuesday, March 1st

During  this  two-hour  lab  session,  we  reviewed  the  current  status  of  our  project and merged minor feature branches that each of us had worked on after Scenario Week.  We  conducted  some  manual  regression  testing  as  we  had  implemented some  new  features  and  uncovered  some  bugs.  These  bugs  were  assigned  to members  to  be  fixed  by  next  week.  Finally,  we  agreed  on  a  list  of  Should  Have requirements that each of us would implement by the following week.

Thursday, March 3rd

We had a brief meeting to test our application on Windows and discovered that the  deployment  did  not  work  at  all  due  to  an  issue  with  Celery  workers  getting killed by the guest OS. We attempted to diagnose the issue but could not come up with a solution in time, so the task of fixing Windows deployment was assigned to a team member. 

Tuesday, March 8th

In this lab session, we merged the branches containing the features that each of us  were  assigned  in  the  previous  week,  including  matplotlib  visualization,  file exporting and data filters. We also took time to update our official requirements list on  our  project  website  with  the  revised  set  of  requirements  that  we  had  been following  internally.  Finally,  we  made  sure  to  perform  some  last  minute  testing  on the  application  in  order  to  prepare  for  the  demo  we  would  be  giving  for  our  client later that day. 

Tuesday, March 8th

After not being able to get through to our clients for quite some time, we finally had a meeting to catch up and demo all of the new features we had implemented in  the  last  couple  of  weeks.  There  was  an  extensive  list  of  changes  and  new features to demo to the clients, but at the end of the meeting, they confirmed that they  were  happy  with  our  work.  In  fact,  they  believed  that  the  feature  set  was complete  enough  for  us  to  begin  distributing  a  beta  release  of  our  application  to their developer community in order to get real feedback from users. We agreed to provide  them  with  one  as  soon  as  we  make  refinements  to  some  features  and conduct alpha testing internally. 

### Progress

- Resolve issues with development on Windows
- Reimplement all visualization features with matplotlib
- Implement basic undo function
- Implement export to CSV and JSON feature
- Implement filter by duplicates and outliers feature
- Redesign UI for “Visualize” tab
- Redesign UI for “Analyze” tab 
- Updated official requirements list

### Plan

We  aim  to  perform  manual  end  to  end  testing  on  our  application  next  week  to uncover  any  bugs  and  oversights  with  features,  in  order  to  provide  our  client  with  a beta release by the end of the week. We also want to begin working on our internal deliverables  for  the  module  including  the  project  video  and  documentation  and updating the website. 

### Personal Paragraphs

#### Bandi Enkh-Amgalan

I  finished  reimplementing  the  visualization  features  with  matplotlib  during  the  first week, also adding scatter plots with regression metrics as a new feature. I supported Gordon in developing the filter by duplicates and outliers feature by creating the front-end  and  integrating  it  with  the  backend  functions  that  he  wrote.  I  was  also  the  one responsible  for  fixing  the  deployment  issues  that  were  occurring  on  Windows machines  which  I  was  able  to  deliver  by  the  end  of  the  second  week.  Finally,  I implemented a basic undo function on the front-end and I am currently working work on the sort by column feature.

#### Gordon Cheng

During  the  last  two  weeks,  I  continued  to  develop  the  system  with  the  rest  of  the team. I primarily focused on the user interface of the system, refining it to make it look better  and  easier  to  use.  I  overhauled  the  layout  of  the  analyze  and  visualize  tabs. For  the  analyze  tab,  I  made  it  so  that  the  user  can  see  up  to  4  column  analyses  at once,  as  opposed  to  maximum  of  2  previously.  I  believe  this  makes  it  easier  for  the user to compare columns. For the visualize tab, I put all the controls into a hideable sidebar  and  made  the  graph  generated  to  fill  most  of  the  screen.  I  also  added  in  a zoom  functionality  so  the  user  has  greater  flexibility  when  it  comes  to  viewing  the graph. Other than the UI, I also worked on some data cleaning features, namely split and  combine  columns,  and  edit  individual  cell  values.  The  prior  allows  the  user  to create new columns from existing columns which can be useful for dealing with data such as dates.

#### Shivam Dhall

Over the course of the last two weeks, I spent most of my time working on the file import and export feature of our application. One of the features I implemented was to allow  the  upload  of  JSON  files  to  the  application,  this  feature  was  particularly important  considering  a  lot  of  the  data  received  by  our  client  is  in  JSON  format.  In order  to  deal  with  large  files,  I  also  added  a  feature  which  would  allow  the  user  to upload  a  random  sample  of  the  file  using  a  specified  percentage  and  an  optional seed value. Another feature I am currently working on is to allow the user to export as well as import data sets in both SQL as well as XLSS (Excel file) formats as they are both widely used. Finally, I have also updated and added a number of unit tests to our existing  suite  in  response  to  the  addition  of  more  functions  to  our  backend  python modules.