---
layout: default
---

<a class="btn" href="{{site.baseurl}}/biweekly.html">&lt; Bi-Weekly Reports</a>

# Bi-Weekly Report 10

## March 24, 2016

### 15/03/16

Time 13-17

This was a meeting that took place during our lab session. Since we had completed the development of our feature set the previous week, we decided that it would be a good idea to start testing our application. In order to test our application, we carried out manual testing. We chose to use this testing strategy as we thought it would help us uncover bugs that arise on our front-end. Before we started the testing, we first came up with some user personas from which we were able to construct a conclusive set of test scenarios and cases. While carrying out the tests we stumbled upon several bugs, some of which are listed below:

- Columns of type date/time cannot be converted to a string type
- Columns of type date are not sorted before they are plotted using a time-series visualisation
- Columns containing NAN values cannot be converted to int types
- The loading dialog does not go away if an operation fails
- Sampling the data with a negative seed value fails
- Matching with regular expressions on numeric columns does not work
- Splitting columns with invalid values does not work
- Renaming a column with the name of an existing column causes problems

During the lab session we also had a chance to meet with Dr Yun Fu, overall he was quiet pleased with our progress and was content with our UI and our feature set, he did however point out some areas within our UI that needed some refining. At the end of the meeting we split the bug list and assigned these between our team-members. We decided that we would fix the bugs over the course of the following week, this was necessary considering we had to release a beta version to our client the same week.

### 22/03/16

Time – 13-17

This was our first meeting after uncovering the bugs. we started off by reviewing which bugs we were able to fix over the week. Considering most of the bugs were a result of minor flaws within our backend functions, we were able to fix most of the bugs. However, a few of the bugs such as having duplicate column names were quiet complicated to fix and therefore required a lot more time and resources. During the rest of our meeting, we decided to get on with what we were working on, this included fixing the bugs left over, documenting the manual tests carried out for use in our website and finally developing and adding content to our website. We decided to meet up the next day in order to create a plan for the following weeks.

### 23/03/16

Time – 14-16

This was a quick meeting we had in order to discuss the plan for the following weeks. This was particularly important considering some of our teammates will be away over the holidays. We therefore decided that by the end of this week we will had over a beta version of the application to our client. Since the client would like to trial the product with some of their potential users, we thought it would be a good idea to carry out some User Acceptance Testing (UAT), we therefore came up with a series of test cases to use for the UAT. We also made some initial plans on what to do for our final team video and presentation, and also decided on ways in which we could collaborate efficiently.

### Shivam Dhall

During the first week, my team mates and I spent most of our time carrying out manual testing for our application. While carrying out the testing we uncovered a substantial number of bugs. I was charged with fixing bugs that were related to the upload process, some of these bugs included allowing users to specify if the file contains headers and preventing users from selecting a seed without a sample size etc. I was also in charge of documenting the manual tests that we carried out as well as their outcomes. Finally, in order to fix some of the bugs we uncovered, changes had to be made to our backend functions. For that reason, I have also been updating our backend unit tests as well as carrying out regression testing to ensure that everything is working well.

### Gordon Cheng

During the past two weeks, the team has been focusing on testing the system, fixing bugs, and preparing the system for a beta release to the client’s community. My work focused mainly on fixing bugs involving the features I developed earlier in the term. These included incompatibilities with invalid values on operations such as splitting and merging columns. I also started working on a new layout for the project website that is more oriented towards potential users of our system. This involved redesigning the landing page of the website and adding in a download page. The reason for this is to make it easier for the users to look up what the system does and also look for support. Additionally, I started working on the user documentation for the system. This involved explaining the behavior of each of the feature of the system and how to use them to transform, analyze and visualize the data. I have decided to put all user documentation in a single page inside our website with separated sections for each feature of the system. This is so that users can easily find what they want by using the search in page function in their browser.

### Bandi Enkh-Amgalan
During the last two weeks, we finalized all of the should have requirements and completed manual end to end testing, uncovering and fixing bugs. In the first week, I developed the sort and search features and assisted with E2E testing to uncover bugs. In the following week, I was put in charge of fixing the bugs and oversights that were uncovered, including an error notification system. We now have a stable build of the system which we can distribute as a beta release, and I am now working on packaging the entire system as a complete Vagrant VM for easier deployment.
